You're second up, funnily enough, Shannon.
You've been beat to the punch, but that's okay.
I'm probably beat.
Mm-hmm.
Just a note while you're taking a seat to the officials that are sitting in the
back. If you have anything to speak to, please come to the table.
You're more than welcome. But we can't hear anything that you say from the seats in
terms of the recording.
Yeah.
Okay.
Welcome. We have half an hour with you for our review briefing.
We'll have questions from the floor.
If you wanted to do a brief introduction, that would be wonderful, but if you could
keep that to a couple of minutes, that would be great, and then we'll get into
questions. Thank you.
Uh, kia ora. Thank you, Chair. Good afternoon. My name is Tony Gray.
I'm Board Chair of Education New Zealand, Manapū Ke Te Ao.
I'll make some opening remarks and then hand over to
ENZ's Acting Chief Exec, Dr Linda Sessens.
Education New Zealand's role is to promote New Zealand as one of the world's most
trusted and transformative education destinations
where learners thrive, communities benefit, and with the government's international
education Going for Growth plan ensure that international education
is a defining force in a prosperous, connected
Aotearoa.
Education New Zealand sees the opportunity now as not
recovery. It is intentional education growth and
discipline where ENZ's role becomes increasingly
central as a system enabler
of one of New Zealand's most important export sectors.
We believe based on the 2024/25 annual review evidence and
progress already made in the last 12 months, that the momentum is
real, the sector is trusted, and the platform for measured growth is credible.
International education, as you know, supports jobs and regional growth,
strengthens global connections, and enriches classrooms and
communities across the country.
And ENZ's work amplifies the value of ministerial, diplomatic, and trade
engagement with partner nations by translating high-level
relationships into practical education outcomes.
We achieve this by working closely with other New Zealand
agencies and sector partners.
To support this work, the Education New Zealand Board
maintains strong oversight of governance,
financial sustainability, and risk with a standard Audit New
Zealand opinion and focused, agile operating model
aligned to fiscal constraints and the potential for
effective collaboration. I'll now hand over to
Dr Sessens.
Thank you. Thank you to the select committee for the opportunity to provide some
supporting commentary to the points made by our chair.
We're very pleased that we were able to achieve 99% of New
Zealand's forecasted 84,000 enrollments for the
2024/5 year, and also that
international education gained $4.6 billion
of export earnings, well on the way to our 2034
goal of $7.2 billion.
77% of New Zealanders surveyed for their views on
international students in 2025 said they wanted to
see either the same number or more students coming to
New Zealand. And 87% of our international
students positively rated their New Zealand
experience, with 43% of them saying
that their experience was excellent, a rise of about
six percentage points from the previous year.
However, the international education world is moving fast
and volatile manner, and we're conscious of the need for New
Zealand's offering to evolve quickly.
And I'd just like to note quickly four specific operational
areas where Education New Zealand is looking to further enhance
our effectiveness and efficiency going forward.
First of all, our offshore presence is critical, and I'm
very pleased that a fourth regional director, this time for India,
will take up this post in early June.
Secondly, as a small country, New Zealand has to work hard to be
visible and even better seen in a positive light.
So we're gratified that as a result of our marketing, New Zealand is
now ranked in the top three of potential
education destinations of 22% of
prospective international students.
And in terms of prompted awareness, we're on a par with
countries like Germany and Singapore.
Thirdly, as the business of international education becomes ever more
competitive and complex, we're investing seriously in
more sophisticated and timely research, insights, and
intelligence for the sector and NZ Inc.
And fourthly, our go-to-market strategy for the past and coming
years balances continuing growth in well-established
markets like China with accelerated growth in more
recent markets like Sri Lanka, along with research
into four emerging markets,
which we do not have a stake in at the moment.
So those are the
four sort of areas that we're developing and working very hard on
now just to bring our comments up to date. Thank you.
Thank you very much. We have our first question from Carl Bates.
Thanks very much, Chair, and thanks for the work that you've been doing.
It's great to see some clear targets around the numbers
of student enrollments from where we started this
conversation a couple of years ago.
Just interested in the growth numbers compared to the awareness.
So the awareness between 2024 and
2034 is to increase
by essentially 10%, 40% to 44.
But you want to have a growth in student enrollments from
83,000 to 119, which is a 43% growth.
Yeah.
Is the growth rate in the awareness
aggressive enough to deliver that
actual conversion in enrollment numbers?
Mm.
The way in which New Zealand shows up in the world
is the factor of an enormous number of
different
circumstances. Awareness by itself is
simply do they know we exist?
Mm.
And that is in a country as
small and physically remote as we areThat
is a difficult
nut to crack on the world stage. However, enrollment
is itself the product of a great deal
of marketing and representation, government to
government contacts, and so on. And I believe
that the two are not necessarily a product of
each other.
Okay. So these are your three primary objectives.
Given what you've just said, can you tell me as an organization what you
measure as your primary conversion metrics,
or the things that you believe drive conversion
and how you measure those?
Yeah.
Conversion is
driven essentially by the providers who are
enrolling the students.
Their expression of interest, sometimes their lead that we
provide to them from
events that we run overseas, becomes
the first step on a process that turns into the
conversion into an enrollment. So in a sense, we
have responsibility for two quite different processes.
However, they link together at the range of
fairs and events that we are in charge of setting
up overseas.
So it's a measure that belongs to the
providers. For us, I think we would assess
its effectiveness in terms of the
amount of knowledge that those prospective students
have before they make the decision to
enroll and the
relevance of that knowledge. So whether or not they understand
what it's like to be in New Zealand, what it costs,
whether there are pathways they can follow, say, from secondary to
tertiary. So the quality of our data and our
information is a factor in the
speed and the effectiveness of that conversion.
So from a marketing perspective, and the amount of money essentially
invested in your role, which is marketing New Zealand, and really important-
Mm
... appreciate that.
What do you measure as the key success
measures or the things that
turn the needle the most, that the dollar we're giving you to
market New Zealand-
Mm-hmm
... actually impacts the conversion that Massey University-
Yeah
... or Te Whare Wananga o Rongomai or Auckland University has
of that student? I appreciate everything you're saying.
Mm-hmm.
Been in marketing all my life,
but what I'm not understanding and haven't understood over the last couple of
years-
Yes.
Mm
... is what is the connection that your management team sit down around the
table-
Yeah
... and say, "This number needs to move in order for us to know we're actually
having an impact"?
Yeah. Okay, let me answer that in two ways.
One is the
array of measures that you can see in our annual
report, which include leads, actual enrollments,
proactive researching of New Zealand, the brand
preference, and the brand awareness.
So there's
a range of factors that
demonstrate how effective that we are.
The second relates to the market by market
plan that we devise in the course of
planning for the year ahead,
so that
in the process, as you probably know, we have four
types of markets that we are in.
They're markets where we know there is going to be growth and where we can
calculate
how big that growth will be. There are markets that we
maintain a presence in and maintain our reputation
in. There are core markets where we have
been for a while and have been successful and believe
that we should maintain that relationship, and
there are emerging markets that we have not yet entered into.
For each of those, we devise a set of targets in
terms of ultimate enrollments based on
a whole set of metrics from the GDP of the country
itself,
the population growth, the outbound mobility,
internal New Zealand brand-- markets that-
Sorry to interrupt. We have got very limited time, and I don't think this is
answering the question that Carl has asked.
Yep.
So if you're not able to answer it now, I wonder if you could come back to the
committee with some more information.
My understanding of the question asked was, what work are you doing as a
management team to assess the work that's actually
turning the dial and seeing enrollments eventuate?
So
if that's okay, we're going to move on because we've got a lot of other questions.
We certainly will come back, but I think that I have answered it in the sense
that all of those markers are the things that we work on
every day and assess every day.
Okay.
If I could ask it a different way, and maybe a final go at
this, but if not, then we'll get-
If you're okay, Lawrence. We've got a long list of questions, and we've got about
20 minutes left.
Oh, we've still got 20?
So if we're going to go to Shannon-
Okay
... then we'll come to you, then it looks like Simon.
Okay.
We can do some cleanup questions at the end.
I think this is going to be one of those cases where we send follow-up questions to
get more detailed answers.
Sure.
Fine.
So Shannon Halbert.
Yeah. Thank you for the work that you're doing.
Obviously, across the tertiary sector, we're increasingly
reliant on international students to buffer the
overall sector and funding challenges that we have.
And as you know, markets can switch on and they
can switch off.What are the risks that you have
identified in this period and/or given advice
to the minister on that could potentially close off markets,
or that you have identified as risk areas, and how have they been
managed?
Mm. Well, there's a very current set of calculations are being
taken right now with regards to risks around
fuel uncertainty, geopolitical uncertainty.
And while, as yet, we do not believe they've affected
enrollments in New Zealand, it is something that is under
weekly
regard by us to make sure that we are making
sure that both the markets that we are
seeking are not themselves affected by geopolitical
change, but also that they will be able to travel,
students from those countries.
The second area has to do with the kinds
of risks that
are things like political upheaval in certain
countries. Countries
where fraud is particularly rife.
And in that regard, we work very closely,
particularly with Immigration New Zealand, who makes quite detailed
risk assessments of the countries to whom they're going to
be asked to offer visas, and other
agencies such as Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
So there's a constant reviewing of the risk
profile of countries that we might be in,
and a
quarterly review from our viewpoint of where we are sitting in the world.
Thank you. Some institutions have raised with me that
through government's funding changes, particularly in research,
that the flow on effect of that will be
a reduction in rankings. Is that a risk
to our international markets? Have you raised it?
Is it something on your radar?
Sorry, could you just explain what's affecting that reduction?
So reduction of research funding-
Yeah
... overall will have implications for the research that
they produce, and research informs our
international rankings. Is that a risk that you have identified
and advised the minister on?
It is not, and in fact, when I look at
our universities, their
growth in international students, their recovery from
COVID-19 has been really remarkable.
They're now back up to where they were in 2019.
And their annual growth, which currently is around
15%-
Mm
... is quite remarkable. I think they're
also
starting to
adjust their offerings such that they're
meeting the needs of the future in terms of innovation,
IT, the sorts of partnerships that we see in
India at the moment, for example, with IRT.
So the answer is no, we're not seeing that at the moment,
and I've got huge confidence in the ability of our
universities to meet their goals.
Thank you. In terms of diversifying the markets, I heard you say
that it is volatile, but there's four key areas, other
regions that you are looking at.
Mm.
What are they? And then at the other end, I'm interested in the
distribution of enrollments between urban centers like Auckland
and
polytech areas like Napier that rely-
Mm
... on international students.
Mm. Sure.
Sorry, the first part was?
The first one is what are the four regions that you're looking at?
The four. Sorry.
Yeah.
Yeah, the four
countries are
Nepal,
Taiwan, Italy, and France.
Thank you.
They're four that are emerging at which we don't have either
much or any presence at the moment.
And I know, so-
And how are we going on Auckland and everywhere else?
Yep. Well, Auckland is approximately
55% of the international students are there.
Second after them is Christchurch with around
11%.
Third is Waikato
with around 7%. So between the three
of them, that's over 70, and the rest are
here scattered all around New Zealand, but not in anything
like such large concentrations.
Are those target areas for you? Small remote areas that have
local polytechnics reliant on-
We do-
... international enrollments
... we do believe that with the reemergence of
polytechnics as standalone institutions-
Mm
... that there will be a
move towards making a regional
value proposition.
Mm.
And we'd certainly welcome that because we do believe
that every part of New Zealand is extremely
attractive and beautiful and has its own uniqueness.
So we're looking forward to that.
I hope it's-
It's great to hear.
Lawrence Zunon, next question from you.
Thank you. I've got a few questions.
Questions. Yeah.
Thank you for coming.
I
know other people may have questions around the Manaaki Scholarship.
My first question to you around Manaaki Scholarship, maybe the only one is, could
you please talk us through on what happened with application
for Manaaki Scholarship and why were there programs on there
that never existed or doesn't exist for universities?
Mm-hmm.
When I do talk about Manaaki Scholarships, I'm very conscious that it is
funded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so
there's a limit to the amount of detail that I think is possibly
appropriate for this select committee, though
always willing to be guided by the chair.
I'm less referring to the funding-
Yeah
... and more to do with application process, which sits with ENZ.
Yep.
SoIn the application process most recently,
people going in to apply for a particular course and particular program that
were on the list, those program does not exist.
So once they go to the university, the university's like, "We cannot offer you an
offer for this or Manaaki scholar or any sort of things from our end
because the program that you have applied for Manaaki doesn't exist in
our system."
Yeah.
The Manaaki scholarships are
translating to a single
portal and a single technological solution, which happens to be
called Ana Mata, which is being set up right now,
and which will enable a nationally consistent
engine for processing the applications for
Manaaki scholarships. It is
in the process of being built, and just a
couple of months ago, it launched this year's intake
for Manaaki scholarships.
Having a single national database of
qualifications proved to be quite
complex given the complex nature of programs at
universities. Sometimes they are subsets of
one particular degree, sometimes they have different names.
And
I do admit that turning that
into a single national system with the help of New Zealand
Qualifications Authority turned out to be
not adequate to the
complexity of the way in which they are described within the universities.
That has very quickly been put right.
Okay.
And we're now-- We've seen so far 2,000
more applications this year than last year.
So we're-
That's great
... satisfied that people are able to get through the system and
get to the qualification they want.
That's helpful. Just a few more questions. Thanks, Madam Chair.
So one of the things that is within ENZ's remit is market insight.
And how are you looking at market insight compared to other
countries of similar jurisdictions, Australia, UK,
US, and Canada being specific areas-
Yeah
... in terms of our international student growth strategy.
Yeah.
But then coming up with that, following on with what you just said to my colleague,
Shannon Halbert, with Nepal being one of them.
Nepal is a really interesting case because Australia almost do not accept students
from Nepal anymore because of qualification
concerns-
Mm
... and among other things.
What, again, are you looking at to ensure to address some of the
barriers that other countries are seeing-
Mm
... in terms of certain jurisdictions they no longer accept or
allow for limited acceptance when it
comes to the four key areas you've identified?
Mm-hmm. Yeah. Okay, starting with the insights,
as we all know, New Zealand is a small country of
comparatively limited means. So within our
budget for our insights and research unit,
there is a finite amount of projects they can do.
Nevertheless, the
community, the international education community around the world is
one that shares
many of the insights and the results that they gain.
So there's a great deal of exchange of knowledge that goes
on.
We both commission research from
established researchers around the world, and we conduct some
of our own, in particular the student satisfaction
survey.
In terms of sharing with other
countries
about markets that may not work out
or may be on the
margins,
I'm very conscious that not only Education New Zealand has its
network of researchers that we work with, but also
our other agencies, such as Immigration New Zealand, is also part
of
networks of immigration authorities.
So there's a great deal of exchange about which countries
have which problems and hopefully how to solve them.
But that's also not something we track because offshore
student
visa agents do not need to be registered with IAA.
But anyway, that's all good. Thank you so much.
My final question is to do with English language schools.
Now-
Mm-hmm
... as you will know that there's been a significant drop in terms of the number.
We have never bounced back to pre-COVID levels.
In your report, you mentioned the English language schools.
Mm-hmm.
I wonder if you're able to specify
further whether those English language schools are
PTE specifically looking at English language, or they
also include English language schools that's attached to a university
like EIA, for example.
Mm-hmm.
Because those offer mainly pathways into universities and
IELTS and
English proficiencies going to university.
What I'm not seeing is what are the numbers that you've got for people who come
here maybe on a visitor visa, do a
eight weeks, 12 weeks English language course as part of their New
Zealand experience and New Zealand exchange.
Do you have any data specifically on that?
Mm-hmm.
I believe that they are not counted in our...
Yeah, let's have this. Yeah, they're not counted.
When we talk about English language schools, we talk about independent English
language schools. And-
That's fine
... I am not that confident that we are able to track
the numbers that come in through those other routes.
Okay.
Next question from Simon Court.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
He's been waiting patiently.
Cheers.
So one of the things that really interests me about the Manaaki program is the
requirement to immediately return to the student's
country at the completion of the qualification.Has
Education New Zealand received any feedback from students or their
sponsors about whether that is of benefit to the
students, or whether it may be more beneficial for
them to get a couple of years work experience in their
field in a New Zealand setting before returning
to their home country?
First of all,
in policy terms, this will be a Ministry of Foreign Affairs
policy matter. Secondly,
there are a number of opportunities for
internships that are provided under the Manaaki scheme that
enable those scholars, when they finish, to do some
work experience in New Zealand before they return to their
home.
And the third thing is with the new national
enrollment system that we are setting up, a module of
that will be about alumni, and I think that's going to be of huge
benefit to New Zealand and to our
wider set of countries to find out what
happens and to stay in touch with students after they
graduate. Because we know that many of them go on to play leading
roles in their countries-
Right
... and could well interact with New Zealand in the future.
So my question was, have you had any feedback from students or their sponsors about
this matter?
I am not aware of any.
Okay. Thank you.
Carl.
Thanks, Chair. Part of marketing and taking opportunity
is responding to current events. What has Education New Zealand
done in terms of the opportunity with the signing the free trade deal with India
to capitalize on the New Zealand name and
focus on New Zealand and India right now?
Mm-hmm. Yeah. Thank you. And we're certainly
very thrilled to hear of the signing of the free trade agreement.
Mm-hmm.
Well, as I said right at the start, we will, for the first time,
add another regional director, which is-
Mm
... an important step, and that new regional director is going to
India at the beginning of June.
The reason why that's important is that regional directors have
diplomatic status, so they're able to be part of the
entire New Zealand inc. process.
Great.
As well as obviously adding a staff member into the
Indian team.
In terms of the opportunities that the free
trade agreement will bring,
when Minister Reti went to India in January,
he signed a number of agreements around
research,
and scholarships, the launch of New Zealand
Excellence Awards, and the
signing of a refreshed education cooperation
arrangement, as well as 30 virtual internships
for IIT Delhi students. So
we realized that this was an important
moment, having a senior
minister go to Delhi, and we were
very happy to put a whole raft of different
opportunities around that.
Mm.
Apart from that, I think that what will be
particularly of value to New Zealand will be
the post-study work visa
situation that comes with the free trade agreement, so that
students who have done a New Zealand qualification
will be able, if they have a bachelor or master's in a STEM
subject, be able to have extended post-study work
rights. And I think the sort of ongoing value to New
Zealand and to our own economy will be very
enhanced by that. And that, as a marketing
tool for New Zealand, is pretty important going forward.
Thank you.
So yes, we're very invested.
Thank you. Look, if I can at the last minute ask a quick question just back on your
point about-
All right
... English language schools.
Mm.
We have seen the track down, obviously the track up.
Every other sector's bounced back pretty well.
Yes.
Do you see that there is even capacity as part of your 2034
target for that part to bounce back for English language
schools, or do you see the capacity is going to come from other parts, like
more into universities, more into schools, et cetera?
Where do you see that potential in your goal for 2034-
Yeah
... for growth?
Yeah. Thank you, and I didn't answer that part.
I think there's a wider picture here, which is
how English language is learned these days, because it is often
through those other types of engagements and
experience, New Zealand experience, that English is learned.
There are many apps. There is much more English teaching in
country.
Sorry to cut you short. We're very tight for time.
Yeah.
Can you just answer whether or not you see there being capacity within English
language schools in the future, or whether you see the capacity being in university
schools, et cetera?
I don't have any evidence either way at this stage.
If I was to make an educated guess,
certainly the English language schools are working hard on increasing their
numbers, and they did go up
8% in the most current year that we're talking about.
However, I think it will become much more varied, and
I'll just finally say, if I may, that much English is now being
taught in country, so in Southeast Asian countries.
Mm-hmm.
True.
The kids are learning English there, and they're not coming completely
fresh.
Is there more capacity, though, in universities and schools to help you reach that
2034 target?
I will ask about that.
Okay.
I believe there will be.
That would be great.
Thank you.
Thank you very much. Appreciate your time.
Sorry it feels rushed. We had no chance to go over time, so appreciate you-
Thank you very much
... making yourselves available. Thank you.